## Data
# Labeling
This process involved first to step trough the data in a window size of 30 data points and data beteewen any two conseuctiva edata points is 17s but first only considering dates with know aurora from visual observations. And set all timestamps with a larger value than or equal to 3 equal to the label auror true(1) othervice false (0). Aditional the interseting dates were also double checked with the magnetometer at kiruna. Then was data checke where the built in allert system highlight aurora but no visual evidence for that event was available. once agin the event was was double checked agains the magnetometer in kiruna. So softwar searced all windows where the built in aurora alert was triggerd or rateh over  certain threshold but not clear evidence for aurora was available. The timewindow was compared to the data from the magnetometer in kirona was used. If the activity was low (visulay) the timstamp was labeled false eventhouge the built in aurora alert sad othervice. By this method some extra aurora event was found and labeld according. Howevere th vast majority of the data where never labeled.

# Day Night data
In first run only data considerd night was used. But a rerun of the data shows that its possible to use the complete dataset. 
Previus dataset:
```
data\processed\processed_data_2024-12-01--2025-11-30.pkl
```
and new dataset:
```
data\processed\processed_data_2_2024-12-01--2025-11-30.pkl
```

## New data
Two more columns were created the rolling mean of temperature and humidty which means that the previus 20 min for each timestamp was consider in the average process. 

# TODO
- Creaete a new preprocessed dataset with known window size and state it explicet in the file name
- Remove unused data
- Before using the data fro training also remove the day night values.